---
layout: post 
title: Week 5: Project Exploration and Some Random Thoughts
---

### Project exploration - step 0

Upon looking at the different links GitHub's How to Contribute Guide (section 4) provided, my favorite is **Code Triage** - https://www.codetriage.com/. It shows a decent amount of projects with the number of issues. I like this because it gives me a variety of options instead of just a few. Also, seeing the number of issues is helpful to see since the projects in the hundreds/thousands let me know that I can definitely find a way to contribute. 

My second to favorite would be **Up for Grabs** - https://up-for-grabs.net/#/. I really like the fact that I can search and filter. This is helpful if I have a specific category I want a project to be focused on. I'll most likely be primarily looking at these two resources for finding my first project to contribute too.

### Here's what I've learned so far about git and GitHub

In the beginning of the git/GitHub introduction given in class, I felt like I had most things packed down in terms of commands, what they do, and also figuring out how to get out of certain git situations. The website https://ohshitgit.com/ has come to be very handy in the past when getting into messy git issues. Nevertheless, I was taken aback when forking and setting up an upstream were introduced. I had never done neither and weirdly had a difficult time grasping the concept. 

Last weeks class on Thursday really helped connect the concept for me. I think it had to do with a combination of doing it in a group and also following a step by step guide which really made things easier and clearer. It was also helpful knowing that the professor was there in case I had immediate questions. During the class activity and with things finally clicking, I realized that the way I went about forking and setting up an upstream to contribute to a classmates blog was done incorrectly - that won't be happening again now. 

It sure is a great feeling when things make sense :)


#### Some random thoughts ...

A few days ago, I checked out my neighborhood on OpenMaps to see if stores were marked on it and ... it's pretty much empty. None of the stores that exist other than a bagel shop are marked on the map. While that kind of sucks, i'm also excited because i'm planning on adding most of what I can to it. I'm also a bit curious as to who added the bagel shop (LOL).

