---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


### My Thoughts on Open Source Myths

#### Some of the ten statements discussed in this short article (https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/) are things you might have thought of before you took this course, and some of you still might not have realized. In your blog for Week 3, write about what you have learned so far with respect to these statements. For example, did you know that it is not always free of cost? Try to be specific and try to give examples.

Majority of the statements presented in the article, I was aware of. However, there were two statements I was not aware of before taking this course and also reading this article. They are:

1. It's not always free:
I was surprised to see this because when I think of open source, free immediately pops up in my head. However, after thinking about it in more depth and seeing a later on example of WordPress being open source, it made more sense to me. The basics of a project are free but for additional features that may be available, a user would need to pay for it.

I guess my question to this now, would be, who has access to the code for the paid for features?


2. Open source is not just for programmers
I can say that I am definitely guilty of believing that open source projects were really only meant for programmers - at least in the contribution aspect. Now, I am aware that there are other ways to contribute to projects other than coding and I am looking forward to doing so :)
