---
layout: post 
title: Week 7
---

### Project Evaluation

This week in class we focused on evaluating projects and used a questionnaire guide to do so. I evaluated the project [Empathy](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/project-evaluation-activity-01/blob/fall19/Empathy_evaluation_RL1.md) and [Firstcontributions.github.io](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/R-Ligier_first-contributions_project_evaluation)

#### Evaluating [Empathy](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/empathy)

For our class evalutaion activity, I chose Empathy because its name really stuck out to me and I liked that it was somewhat metaphorical to what the project does - Empathy is a messaging program which supports text, voice, video chat, and file transfers over many different protocols. You can tell it about your accounts on all those services and do all your chatting within one application. 

Upon evaluating the project, I struggled in the beginning with naviation as it is not hosted on GitHub but on Gnome which was my first time seeing/using this platform. Aside from that, the activity was a great learning oopurtunity since I really had to "inestigate" the project to understand the different parts of it such as: licensing, pull requests, issues, number of commits, contributors, types of files, and so forth.  

Overall, while Empathy is a great project idea, it has not been maintained for a while. In addition, I found the project lacking organization and proper documentation for usability.


#### Evaluating [Firstcontributions.github.io](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io)

For my individual project evaluation choice, I decided to use one of the projects I mentioned in my [week 6](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/R-Ligier-weekly/blob/gh-pages/_posts/2019-10-09-week06.md) blog post - [First Contributions](https://github.com/firstcontributions). First contributions is managed by Facebook and has 3 repositories in which I chose - [firstcontributions.github.io.](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io). This is the projects web application in which folks can contribute to or have the option of also contributing to the other two. I like this project because it stands by its name of catering to first contributors. 

Evaluating this project was much simpler than evaluating Empathy. I suspect it is because the project is active and needs to be organized and documented that way first timers can navigate through the repository without feeling lost or intimidated. The projects documentation is very well written, clear, and understandable for almost ANYONE to be able to contribute. They even have a document that walks you step by step on how to contribute. Overall, I was very pleased.


#### Summary 

This week, aside from evaluating the two above projects, I made a few contributions to OpenStreetMap. The contributions were adding some of the stores, restaurants, and shops in my neighborhood. My neighborhood on OpenStreetMap is sadly underdeveloped so I am planning to focus on adding as much as I can. I also opened a new [issue](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io/issues/78) in the firstcontributions.github.io project and will be working on that for week 8.
