---
layout: post 
title: Week 6
---

### More Project Exploration and Thoughts on a Talk by Karen Sandler


#### Project exploration - 1

Since I'm really into documentation and writing, I looked at these projects and their issues. The first two seem a bit scary to me because they are big and I couldn't really find an issue that I felt I could do. The last two denoted with "**" are interesting, seem feasible, and had issues I could take care of. I feel the last two are good starting projects for me to contribute too and then I can move on to the top two.

- Facebook - Docusaurus: https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus
- TypeDoc: https://github.com/TypeStrong/typedoc
- First contributions: https://github.com/firstcontributions/first-contributions **
- reactjs.org: https://github.com/reactjs/reactjs.org **

#### A talk by Karen Sandler and my thoughts on it

This week in class, Karen Sandler came by and gave a talk on open source software. She introduced herself by starting off with her story and what lead her to become a lawyer in tech. I admired it as her career was stemmed off passion and personal experience. She became a lawyer in tech specifically within open source because she believes we should all have access to source code when the piece of technology is impacting our life. In her case, it was her heart defibrillator. I felt that I could really connect with her on the belief of sharing as I to want to start an open source project based off personal experience to share information that I feel can help others.

In addition, it was really cool to learn about the different types of intellectual properties - copyright, trademark, patent. While it's very important to know when working with open source proects, I also found it to be generally useful information. Karen also cleared up some confusion I had - I was unclear of the role licenses played and how they served protection. From her explanation, the license is a citation of ground rules for EVERYONE to follow which means anyone who does violate those rules can be in trouble.

This was overall a great talk and very informative. I enjoyed it very much!
