---
layout: post 
title: Week 9
---

### Project Progress and [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)

#### [Project](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io) Progress

The project I chose to work on is the website: https://firstcontributions.github.io/. They display open source projects that are beginner friendly for first time contributors. I picked this project because I found an area in their documentation that I felt could be improved and also liked the idea of the project. As I mentioned in last weeks blog post, I opened an issue regarding their documentation that I wanted to better - it was accepted and then assigned to me. Progress has been a bit slow on the [firstcontributions.github.io](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io) project and I am thinking of starting to look for a new project to contribute to because of this. 

I am working on this [issue](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io/issues/78) that I opened and upon working on it in order to resolve it, I came across some scenarios which may affect on how I resolve the issue. Before just making a pull request or simply giving up (?), I thought it'd be a good idea to bring this up to the maintainers and get their thoughts. However, I have yet to hear back from them after 6 days! If I don't hear back by next week I'll be looking for a different project to contribute to.

#### Thoughts on the [Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)

I really enjoyed reading the Cathedral and the Bazaar. The author Eric Raymond, did a great job of comparing open source development to a cathedral and bazaar. In short, he stresses that a cathedral is best built with a large network of passionate people who bring a variety of expertise and skills in different areas (the bazaar). Eric then relates this to the building and upcoming of his project Fetchmail and Linus’s Linux project.

#### *My three favorite concepts Eric raises are the following:*

**1. Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.**

  This concept comes from Eric explaining Linus's style of development. He goes on to say how the Linux community "resembled a babbling bazaar with diering agendas and approaches.'' I was impressed with this concept because it reminded me of the agile method which had me wonder if this was one part of Linus's style of development as well. 

The Agile Method is a particular approach to project management that is utilized in software development. The method uses incremental, iterative work sequences that is split up between different members within a team. The flow of the method is to ensure some certainty of what is being built is liked by the customer/user and is effective. It is used to avoid building projects in completion that in turn may end up failing. 

**2. To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you.**

  One of the stories Eric tells his readers is his own personal experience with solving an issue he believed to be a problem - "What I needed was a program that would reach out over my intermittent dialup connection and pull across my mail to be delivered locally". This issue is what led Eric to Fetchmail and Linus to Linux. 

I liked this concept A LOT because it very much resonates with me. I believe that with any kind of work we do, we need to be interested in it or we will not perform as well. And the best work we do is normally correlated to our wants, needs, and interests. We are more caring and attentive towards a project when it means something to us. 

**3. If you treat your beta-testers as if they're your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource.**

  Eric comes to conclude with this concept after explaining his wins with fetchmail's success due to the size of the project beta users - "..... I got bug reports of a quality most developers would kill for, often with good fixes attached. I got thoughtful criticism, I got fan mail, I got intelligent feature suggestions."

I can coincide with him that it is very important for projects to have large beta users. It helps to bring diversity, new ideas, and makes for great feedback. With today's software being very biased, open source development breaks this cycle by allowing all different types of people with different backgrounds, set of skills, and knowledge to be part of a community who share a common interest. How can we make better unbiased software without beta users? There isn’t a way.

*Summary:*

I really enjoyed reading the Cathedral and the Bazaar and liked that Eric used a bazaar and cathedral to metaphorically show what open source development is and (can) look(s) like. Many instances, he raises the fact of how important it is for the maintainer to have good communication skills and a decent personality (LOL). If the project leader lacks this, it already can become an issue for a healthy community to form. A project leader must be open to suggestions/feedback, is able to attract interest, and must not be picky with the types of people who come to contribute. Needless to say, it is also very important for contributors to be interested in the project. Without real interest, contributors will not be as attentive on wanting to work on it and may also not write good code. 

*Here are two quotes I REALLY liked:*

> Human beings generally take pleasure in a task when it falls in a sort of optimal-challenge zone; not so easy as to be boring, not too hard to achieve. A happy programmer is one who is neither under-utilized nor weighed down with ill-formulated goals and stressful process friction. Enjoyment predicts efficiency.

> This should be obvious. In order to build a development community, you need to attract people, interest them in what you're doing, and keep them happy about the amount of work they're doing. Technical sizzle will go a long way towards accomplishing this, but it's far from the whole story. The personality you project matters, too.

#### Weekly Summary

This week in class we did an [activity](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/cs395.86_f19_class_schedule.php) simulating working with a team of contributors to an upstream project. It causes merge conflicts and shows you how to use git fetch, git merge, and git rebase to synchronize your work. We have yet to finish but will be completing it by 10/30.

In addition, I've also made a few OpenStreetMap contributions and submitted a pull request for [tobyau blog's 6](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/tobyau-weekly/pull/4) where I did some re-phrasing and grammar fixes.

