---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

### Open Source at Bloomberg, Significance of Open Source Hardware, Project Contributions and Updates

#### A Talk by Kevin Fleming from Bloomberg

On November 7th, Kevin Fleming from Bloomberg's Open Source Department gave a talk to my peers and I to discuss the ways Bloomberg is involved and utilizes open source software. I found the talk to be really informative and he did a great job at presenting and keeping me interested all throughout his presentation. While I have mixed feelings on a company as large as Bloomberg capitalizing on other people's time and efforts, I was glad to hear that they do their part on making sure to give back. 

Here are some specific things I found interesting:
- Bloomberg utilizes some kind of open source software in each area of development/product - Dev/Ops Automation, Cloud Computing, Distributed Computing, Machine Learning, News Search, Quantitative Computing.
- They are a major contributor to Juypter. One of Bloomberg's biggest contributions to Jupyter, was making the [Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook) user friendly. They did this by first conducting a UX design testing session at their office before performing any changes. Participants who partook in these sessions were asked to arrange an array of index cards noted with menu categories in an order that they would prefer to view a menu list. Once Bloomberg had enough data from the sessions, they were able to take the most popular results and apply it to the Jupyter Notebook UI.
- Bloomberg hosts an Open Source Day where their developers/engineers spend the day contributing and improving open source projects such as Git and Jupyter. 

Referring back to the article, Makers and Takers, it's pretty clear that Bloomberg can be classified as a Taker. On the bright side, Bloomberg at least contributes back as much as possible. Although, one can argue that since Jupyter is heavily used at Bloomberg, that is the only incentive for them to give back. Contributing is how they can ensure that the software functions properly and doesn't cause issues on their end. If Jupyter was not heavily used, they most likely would not be as involved or at all ...

*Note: I am unable to compare this to the talk by Bill Reyner from FactSheet since I was serving for Jury Duty (see blog 9).*

#### Significance of Open Source Hardware - *basing off this [article](https://opensource.com/article/19/11/coreboot-system76-laptops?utm_campaign=intrel)*

This article dives into the significance of open source hardware by focusing on System76's coreboot open source firmware. While reading this article, it made me realize that I don't think I am very much for open source software that is made for hardware. I also read the article [Open Source Firmware by Jessica Frazelle](https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2019/10/239673-open-source-firmware/fulltext) and not much of how I felt changed. Software for hardware in my opinion, is more open to vulnerabilities and the fact that proprietary firmware is already subject to being hacked, I couldn’t imagine firmware being open source and open to anyone. While I like the idea of having visibility into the stack and being able to verify the state of software on a machine, an open source project for firmware should probably have some strict rules on how the outside world can view code as well as contribute.


#### Contributing to Wikipedia

Since this is my very first time contributing to Wikipedia, I wanted to choose a topic that is personal and relates to me. I felt that if I am going to make some kind of change, I should be pretty knowledgeable about it. And so, I chose an article that discusses/provides an overview of the disease I was diagnosed with - [Charcot Marie Tooth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charcot%E2%80%93Marie%E2%80%93Tooth_diseasehttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charcot%E2%80%93Marie%E2%80%93Tooth_disease). I read through the different sections and felt that I could re-word some of the sentences and also add in a little bit more context. I did this for the *Diagnosis* and *Management* sections. 

I must say, it felt pretty good to make an edit on this topic considering it means something to me. It's important to me that when people read this article, it is clear to understand and the information is accurate. There was one specific sentence that I felt didn't properly explain the types of diagnosis procedures available and I was able to change it! How great is that!

#### Project Update

I am still in the process of searching for another open source project to contribute to. Currently, I've been eyeing [metalsmith.io](https://metalsmith.io/). I learned about this project through someone I actually reached out to regarding their blog template. His name is Ryan and you can see his blog [here](https://ryannjohnson.com/). One of their blog posts was one of the top stories on Hacker News and I really liked the layout so I emailed the author on how they built their site. He told me with various tools but the blog templating was from metalsmith.io which turned out to be open source when I initially looked into it. 

I've mainly read through the projects documentation and "how to use/implement" guide. It honestly seems a bit complicated although, this could be because I haven't yet installed and tried it out myself. Once I do that, I'll decide from there on how I think I can contribute. Ryan also ended up writing a [blog post](https://ryannjohnson.com/writing/how-my-personal-website-is-built/) on how his website is built because it turned out that others had emailed him with the same question as mine and so I'll be using that as a reference as well.

#### Weekly Summary

- Engaged in a talk by Kevin Fleming on how Bloomberg utilizes Open Source.
- Explored the [metalsmith.io project](https://metalsmith.io/).
- Made 2 blog post edits - [Azheng4119](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/azheng4119-weekly/pull/2) and [Benjaminlgur](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/benjaminlgur-weekly/pull/3).
- Made some edits to the "Diagnosis" and "Management" sections for the wikipedia page of [Charcot Marie Tooth Disease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charcot%E2%80%93Marie%E2%80%93Tooth_disease).
- In class Linux Tutorial Overview. 
- Contributed to [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/changeset/76883167).


