---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

### Trust the Vote

#### Thoughts on the article: [Election fraud: Is there an open source solution?](https://opensource.com/article/19/9/voting-fraud-open-source-solution?)

In summary, this article discusses the Open Source Election Technology (OSET) Institute taking on the role of developing the Trust The Vote project as an open source technology to help keep elections honest.

Throughtout reading this article, a few thoughts came to mind. I liked the idea of the project being open source for two main reasons:
 1. The software is less likely to be biased since the project is open for anyone to volunteer and contribute. 
 2. This ties in with #1 however, the software would be built by a diverse set of people and skills rather than typical white men in tech.
 3. They are integrating other open source software.
 
Although, I liked the idea, I was also skeptic of how the project would avoid hackers and risk vulnerbilities.

Towards the ending of the article, the author states this `"there are two levels of access for people who want to work with the OSET Institute's Trust the Vote code. One is to contact the project to request access to certain code to advance development efforts; all legitimate requests will be honored, but the code is not yet accessible in the public domain. The other access point is to the extensive work that the OSET Institute has done for third-party voter registration systems, such as Rock The Vote. That source code is publicly available online..."`

This changed how I felt because the project doesn't feel "open" anymore since those who want to contribute need to request access. While this is very understandable for security reasons, I don't think they should call themselves open source. A call out for volunteers to contribute would have been enough in my opinion. Lastly, the project seems to be looking for a very specific set of skills - `"The OSET Institute is continually on the lookout for talented volunteers to advance the project. Top needs include system architecture and engineering and software development for both cloud-based and offline applications. These are not entry-level projects or positions, and in some cases, they require advanced skills in BIOS and firmware development; operating system internals; device drivers; and more..."` which cuts out many people to contribute.

#### Project Progress

#### Weekly Summary

- Submitted pull request for edits made to [Jxuan101 Blog Post 8](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/jxuan101-weekly/pull/2).
- Read the article: [Election fraud: Is there an open source solution?](https://opensource.com/article/19/9/voting-fraud-open-source-solution?).
