---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

### In-class Git Collaboration - Reflecting

#### 1. Comment on your experience with the Git activity that you did in class today. Was it useful? Was it confusing? Did you have time to finish? Did you have merge conflicts? Were you able to resolve them?

I found the class activity to be useful as it helped refresh my memory. I also did run into merge conflicts and I was luckily able to resolve them. The only small confusing thing for me was forking. I've never done this before or used the feature so I wasn't sure the use of it. After some explanation in class, I did leave with some understanding however, I now follow up questions such as, why would someone want to use this and when? Also, what are the benefits that come with forking? I plan to look into it this weekend to find some answers :)

#### 2. What are your reactions to the above on-line readings. Pick one or two that made an impression on you and articulate your thoughts about them.

I really enjoyed reading the first article - _A Beginner‘s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source_ and hearing Shubheksha's experience. I was able to relate to how they had felt intimidated and also experiencing everyone's worst fear of being told “If you can’t figure out how to make the change, you’re not qualified to make the change.”. I was glad to see that it was followed by a positive outcome later on with finding a project that made the author feel welcomed through the community and mentorship. This article gives me hope (LOL) that with the right project and community, contributing to open source doesn't need to be this scary thing.

The second article i'd like to share my thoughts on, is, the guide GitHub provides on _How to contribute to open source_. I came upon this article before when I did some research on starting an open source project. It is probably one of the best guides i've ever seen because of its explanation and details. It's laid out in a very organized manner and written with simplicity. This guide has definitely left an impression on me and has put me at ease with some of my fears. I specifically like that the guide has a section with the different ways you can contribute based on skill or interest.

#### 3. Editing a classmates blog post

I decided to make an edit in gio-cares first blog post. I felt that one of her sentences could have been phrased differently. To do this, I forked the repository, cloned it to my machine, made the edit, staged and pushed it, and finally opened a new pull request. I winded up realizing that I made a few erros in doing this such as: I did not set up an upstream and also did not create a new branch for the change. The upstream part, I was actually confused and did not really know how to do. As for creating a new branch, it somehow completely slipped my mind. In the future, I will be sure to do the following two as I now know how to and will not forget. On the bright side, my change was accepted and merged and it felt great to see this :)

The second article I'd like to share my thoughts on, is, the guide GitHub provides on _How to contribute to open source_. I came upon this article before when I did some research on starting an open source project. It is probably one of the best guides I've ever seen because of its explanation and details. It's laid out in a very organized manner and written with simplicity. This guide has definitely left an impression on me and has put me at ease with some of my fears. I specifically like that the guide has a section with the different ways you can contribute based on skill or interest.
