---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

### Project Progress, Makers and Takers, and Wikipedia Exploration

#### Thoughts on ["Makers and Takers" by Dries Buytaert](https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source)

While this article was a bit lengthy, I really enjoyed reading it and could say that I agree on the authors perspective. Eric defines *Makers* as the ones who `"...help make Open Source projects; from investing in code, to helping with marketing, growing the community of contributors, and much more"` and *Takers* as the ones who `"....monetize Open Source projects without contributing back to those projects"`. He goes on to define these two roles in more depth and how *Takers* hurt *Makers*. Later on in his article and also my favorite section, he dives into how a growing project changes and makes suggestions by introducing three economic models for sustaining the project long-term:

1. **Self-governance:** Two parties would negotiate rules on how to share the rewards of the Open Source project and what level of contribution would be required in exchange. They would set up a contract where they both agree on how much each party can earn and how much each party has to invest. During the negotiations, various strategies can be proposed for how to cooperate. However, both parties need to agree on a strategy before they can proceed. Because they are negotiating this contract among themselves, no external agent is required. This becomes increasingly difficult when more than two parties are involved. 
2. **Privatization:** Here, Makers are rewarded unique benefits that are not available to Takers. These exclusive rights provide Makers a commercial advantage over Takers, while simultaneously creating a positive social benefit for all the users of the Open Source project, Takers included.
3. **Centralization:**

#### Wikipedia Exploring

#### **Project Progress**
In week 9's blog post, I mentioned the maintainers not responding for about 6 days to my comment in the discussion. Well, the next day they did! This made me pretty happy :sweat_smile:. The maintainer I mainly was having discussions with ended up including the second maintainer because it seems that the comment regarding an error I had, striked up a possible second issue that was irrelevant to solving mine. They spoke among themselves on how to resolve it and I chimed in to then ask if I should go about solving my issue a different way. They then followed up with me asking to solve the issue I opened along with the second issue that was discovered. 

The two issues are as follows: 
1. Lack of instructions missing in their CONTRIBUTING.md file.
2. Add package-lock.json file to .gitignore file. 

Here's a mini timeline:

| Date      | Event          | 
| ------------- |-------------|
| 10/13/2019 | Opened issue regarding CONTRIBUTING.md file lacking instructions|
| 10/20/2019 | Attempted to work on resolving issue and encountered an error but sadly failed and brought this up to the maintainers|
| 10/29/2019 | A maintainer responds back to me offering help. I then responded the same day with a screenshot of my error. The maintainer includes the second maintainer to ask a question that may be related to why I encountered that error.|
| 11/01/2019 | Maintainers discuss among themselves and realize there is another issue and asks if I can fix it. New issue - add a file name to the .gitignore file. |
| 11/02/2019 | Submitted pull request :muscle: Hopefully it is accepted! |


Now that i've submitted a pull request, I will spend the rest of the week looking for another project I can contribute to. I'd really like to find a project that is heavy on documentation such as ones who focus on interview prep or guides. I feel like I can contribute way more with this scenario. 

#### **Weekly Summary**
- [Submitted a pull request](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io/pull/94) to the firstcontributions.github.io project :grimacing:
- Added some more restaurants in my neighborhood on [OpenStreetMap]()
