---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

### Reflection

When I first started this course, I was set out to contribute to an open source project via documentation. I mentioned in my first blog post that the goal was to begin building some kind of portfolio for technical writing. Luckily, I can say that this stuck!

My first contrbution was to [firstcontribution.github.io](https://github.com/firstcontributions/firstcontributions.github.io) and my second was to [Sourcetrail](https://github.com/CoatiSoftware/Sourcetrail). In both projects, I made documentational edits but the second project being my biggest contribution. In addition, both projects also aligned with one of my values which I mentioned in my second blog post was important to me for finding a project that would best suit me and interest me. 

Overall, this class was a great experience. I learned a lot about open source software, what forking is and how to use upstream, and as someone who has a passion for writing, I really enjoyed doing the weekly blog posts. Lastly, having to find a project to contribute was scary. There were moments where I'd search and search and couldn't find something that suited me. I got lucky finding Sourcetrail and having them allow me to work on re-doing their documentation. I'll be continuing to work on Sourcetail even after the class/semester is over.

#### Weekly Summary

- Worked on changes for my PR for the Sourcetrail project that the the maintainers requested. <br>
**Update 12/07/2019** <br>
My PR has been merged and changes will be made live on Monday!

- Watched presentations given by classmates on their journey of contributing to a project.
- Prepared/Presented my journey of contributing :)



